---
date: '2023-01-01'
title: 'Lunar SDI 2023-12-14 Working Meeting'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

### Meeting information
Meetings are public and interested parties are encouraged to attend. Meetings occur on the second Thursday of every month at the time indicated below.

| Time | Time Zone |
|------|-----------|
| 4PM  | EST |
| 3PM  | CST |
| 2PM  | MST |
| 1PM  | PST | 

### How to join?

##### Video Conference Link
[Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NjM0MzI5NGUtZDI1ZS00YWVjLWI1MTctYjUzZTU4OTVlNWIz%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%22%7d)

##### Phone
Number: 1-833-436-1163
Meeting Code: 864 509 369#

## Attendees
- Laz
- Marc
- Brent
- Tim
- Todd
- Ross
- 

## Agenda
- Proj:json / WKT / proj, ohh my
  - https://proj.org/en/9.3/specifications/projjson.html#introduction
  - projjson == WKT2:2019
  - projjson encodes as JSON instead of text
  - WKT vs. proj string: https://proj.org/en/9.3/faq.html#what-is-the-best-format-for-describing-coordinate-reference-systems
      - A proj string is more concise because it is (effectively) lossy compression.
  - Discussion:
    - Larger compliance with standards question. Is this all or nothing? Does 'just' a proj string work? Does less verbosity run into transformation issues?
    - What are we seeing in the wild?
    - If the requirement is that we want a WKT string is, we provide assistance to get from proj short string to WKT.

- Ocentric vs. Ographic Latitude discussion conclusion. What are we promoting?
  - Does it matter?
  - There is a concern that NGA might want to us an ellipsoid or triaxial ellipsoid (then lat/lons change). Then this matters.
  - For our purposes, use ocentric or ographic with a reference sphere.
  - 

- LSDI WG will start to brainstorm on data creators / products that we can solicit into the SDI.
  - Preparing to release a large quantity of Kaguya TC DTMs.
  - Awaiting feedback on QuickMap integration of Kaguya TC data.
  - No real news on LOLA lidar with other data UIs.
    - ASP can now read these for DTM derivation (standards at work!).
  - Further down the line:
    - Spectral data. These are challenging because recording uncertainties is challenging. This is orbital and ground base telescopic.
    - 1mpp SfS for Artemis sites / other lunar sites. Hopeful to be able to release via the annex. Our standards need to be finalized to make that work.
  - LMMP (in the Treks (not compliant), and in USGS archive)
  - What other mission teams are archived and could be made available?

- 

- ## Action Items
  - Update docs - require projjson and/or wkt string on all data products
  - Add tutorial / links for how to go from proj short string to proper WKT string
  - Update the docs to say ocentric or ographic, use a sphere
  - NGA geoid - as it informs ocentric vs. ographic discussion
  - Email Laz - spectral data, bringing them in (partially?)


## Next Agenda:
- 
  
## Next Meeting
January 11 @ 2PM MST.

{{< comments >}}
