---
date: '2023-07-13'
title: '2023-06-08 Working Meeting'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

### Meeting information
Meetings are public and interested parties are encouraged to attend. Meetings occur on the second Thursday of every month at the time indicated below.

| Time | Time Zone |
|------|-----------|
| 5PM  | EDT |
| 4PM  | CDT |
| 3PM  | MDT |
| 2PM  | PDT | 

### How to join?

##### Video Conference Link
[Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NjM0MzI5NGUtZDI1ZS00YWVjLWI1MTctYjUzZTU4OTVlNWIz%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%22%7d)

##### Phone
Number: 1-833-436-1163
Meeting Code: 864 509 369#

## Attendees
- Marc Hunter
- Brent Archinal
- Julie Stopar
- Ross Beyer
- Jay Laura

## Agenda

- Updates on action items from previous meeting:
  - Meeting Times:
    - Result: No good time....
- Planned actions:
  - Formally adopt the chart.
    - More time needed to review. Defer to next month.
  - Formally adopt the road map.
    - More time needed to review. Defer to next month.
  - We are going to do this via email.
  - We will ask people to reply all.
- Marc: Follow up with Jim. He'll get onto the agenda.
  - This is all good. We are good to go. Trent peer reviewed.
- Take a stab at some language for applicability of standards and goals of these standards.
  - Jay will take a stab at this the week after next.
- NGA
  - Geo-in-space conference managed by OGC.
  - https://portal.ogc.org/public_ogc/register/230725geoinspace.php
  - Also a discussion of lunar mapping and collaborations (e.g., Treks). Overall discussion is focused on mapping and interoperability.
  - As the Lunar SDI, we are unsure how or why their is a push for the principal axis system. Is this for mapping? We are recommending the mean earth system.  (Cite Brent's PDW abstract.)
  - We assume ME. Unless people start explicitly stating this, we can increasing get in trouble. So, should we be recommending that people start including Moon ME when describing coordinates. Likely yes.
- Julie's email re: Gap Products
  - What prompted the email? Ross' talk at the PDW.
  - South Pole lunar data:
    - Out of Goddard. PI Restreppo.
    - GCP out of Goddard.
    - A reference data set is being built. This is a set of data products.
    - Also creating some trajectories
  - Highest resolution (1m SfS) covering Artemis areas. (10km x 10km)
  - Mosaics / tiled
    - Landing site specific / regional mosaics
  - Mini-RF data. Is it available?
    - Julie will contact Mini-RF to see if this identified gap has been filled.
- QuickMap - feedback from the community about whether or not the tool / data in the tool is meeting the community need?
  - Reasonable first stop for 'data bushwhacking'
  - Work then transitions to more dedicated tools.
  - Where is the point where more enhancements are valuable?
  - Exploratory spatial data analysis for the win.
  - 
- In Sept. we will send a document to Sarah with a recap of LCDP, gaps that have been filled, and then new needs that we have identified.
- 
  
- ## Action Items
- Jay will take a stab at some language for applicability of standards and goals of these standards.
  - Add some recommendation language for Moon ME.
- Julie will contact Mini-RF to see if this identified gap has been filled.
- Brent will resend the listing of the products and comments. What do we add?
  
Next Agenda:
- 
  
## Next Meeting
August 10 @ 2PM PST.

{{< comments >}}
