---
date: '2023-05-12'
title: '2023-06-08 Working Meeting'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

### Meeting information
Meetings are public and interested parties are encouraged to attend. Meetings occur on the second Thursday of every month at the time indicated below.

| Time | Time Zone |
|------|-----------|
| 5PM  | EDT |
| 4PM  | CDT |
| 3PM  | MDT |
| 2PM  | PDT | 

### How to join?

##### Video Conference Link
[Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NjM0MzI5NGUtZDI1ZS00YWVjLWI1MTctYjUzZTU4OTVlNWIz%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%22%7d)

##### Phone
Number: 1-833-436-1163
Meeting Code: 864 509 369#

## Attendees
- Marc Hunter
- Brent Archinal
- Sarah Black
- Ross Beyer
- Jay Laura
- 
## Agenda

- Updates on action items from previous meeting:
  - Meeting Times:
    - Jay: Add Sam and Slyvester to the when is good. 
    - Everyone: When is good poll.
    - Jay: Collect emailed feedback and send a shared word document. Update as responses come in.
    - Result: No good time....
  - Sam soliciation:
    - Jay: Send Sam the feedback solicitation paragraph.
    - This fell off my radar. Apologies to Sam - still send?
  - Outreach:
    - Someone: Steve Indyk at Honeywell. LEAG commercial advisory board. (Not done.)
    - Jay need to do that. Also ping Nick @LROC (Done)
    - Jay: Follow up with MAPSIT and LEAG.  (Done)
    - Add Sam formally to the organization.(Done)
  - Road map Updats:
    - Tomorrow or Monday finalize the edits from Laz and incorporate. Email the group. (Done)
  - Everyone: Review the charter / road map 
  - Meetings:
    - Marc: Get on the lunar geologic mapping meeting agenda.  
    - Marc will ping Sam to get on the agenda.
    - Has ASC seen themes for this meeting?
      - No sense for what the agenda is at this point.
      - Multiple topics / lots of topics.
      - The community expressing what it needs is an important aspect of the workshop.
- Planned actions:
  - Formally adopt the chart.
    - More time needed to review. Defer to next month.
  - Formally adopt the road map.
    - More time needed to review. Defer to next month.
  - Discussion of the feedback from the standards comments.
    - 0-360: The data are stored in 0-360, but can be displayed in any form that people desire.
      - Recommend that the data be stored in 0-360.
      - The data can be in the -180 to 180 domain as needed.
      - Documentation.
    - Data interpolation:
      - Some users say that data that is interpolated can not be used. Some data can, arguably not be used without interpolation.
    - Do we need to have an applicability of standards comment?
      - How and under what circumstances do we intend to have these apply?
      - Use cases for how this can be done?
      - How do these impact current data processing pipelines?
      - How do you grandfather in existing missions?
    - Open Data Access Policy just got pushed. That is pretty impactful. This is marketing.
    - Write this as applicability of standards. Your particular data product or investigation may require something else. Documentation is the key.
    - Push harder on the documentation and metadata the MOST. 

## Action Items
- Marc: Follow up with Jim. He'll get onto the agenda.
- Please read charter and roadmap. Goal is to disucuss (if needed) and adopt (if possible) in July.
- Take a stab at some language for applicability of standards and goals of these standards.

Next Agenda:
- 
  
## Next Meeting
July 13 @ 2PM PST.

{{< comments >}}
