---
date: '2024-07-11'
title: '2024-07-11 Working Meeting'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

### Meeting information
Meetings are public and interested parties are encouraged to attend. Meetings occur on the second Thursday of every month at the time indicated below.

| Time | Time Zone |
|------|-----------|
| 4PM  | EST |
| 3PM  | CST |
| 2PM  | MST |
| 1PM  | PST | 

### How to join?

##### Video Conference Link
[Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NjM0MzI5NGUtZDI1ZS00YWVjLWI1MTctYjUzZTU4OTVlNWIz%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%22%7d)

##### Phone
Number: 1-833-436-1163
Meeting Code: 864 509 369#

## Attendees
- Julie Stopar
- Mark McClernan
- Ross Beyer
- Marc Hunter
- Brent Archinal
- Sam Lawrence


## Agenda

- Checklist Updates:
  - ToDo
- Upload location/form:
  - ToDo
- FDP update (from Brent's document):
  - 
- Another 2 data sets:
  - 
  - 
- Outreach: 
  - Who to reach out to?
  - What to communicate?
  - Timeline?

- MAPSIT Question
 - Jay provided a rough outline of a proposed order of operations:
  - A finding to the PAC articulates that the SDI exists, has adopted standards, and is the place to collect standards for ARD for the community.
  - A discussion and ultimately endorsement from MAPSIT for the lunar SDI standards saying that 'these are the standards that the community should adopt'.
  - A discussion between MAPSIT and LEAG (leadership?) seeking to gain a LEAG endorsement.
  - A subsequent finding to the PAC highlighting these endorsements and then asking for a NASA policy that ARD released data conform to Lunar SDI standards.  
  - Would the term 'recommended standards' or 'recommended best practices' make sense? Is this a language concern? Replace the wording from  'standards' to 'recommended standards' / 'recommended best practices'.
    - It is the word 'standard' that is challenging here.
  - Not clear that there is a NASA 'place' that would ingest and promote these standards to the community.
  - This should be discussed more with the MAPSIT steering committee. Not a lot of knowledge of what we are doing in MAPSIT / LEAG.
  - There is a lot of understanding within the PAC for the need to adopt best practices and standards.
  - Let's also talk to Robin. Does she have a plan? We do not want to duplicate efforts or perform redundant actions.
  - Time to move to an educational role. This might feel like we are repeating and that's good.
  - Collect as much feedback as possible. We, as a group, can then integrate that feedback.
  - Lesson learned - go slow and don't ruffle feathers.
- Artemis Data Products
  - The goals of those products are different from the goals that we are promoting.
  - Sam's thinking is to incorporate standards from the SDI when they make sense.
  - The Artemis group is committed to releasing data (when appropriate) to the PDS or a PDS equiv.
  - Unlikely to have any surprises in what is created.
  - Ingest-derived products are anticipated to be more challenging.
    - is the concern accuracy and/or interoperability?
    - For navigation, accuracy. Is the control sufficient? Is there a validation procedure for the given data product?
    - Standard control sooner, rather than later would be ideal.
  - For the L-Map (??) program, does a standard set of data products exist?
    - TBD. Sam doesn't know.
  - Are the Artemis data controlled access?
    - Again, unknown. Unlikely outside a small group doing specific work.
- How about VIPER?
  - Largely confirmation, most likely.
  - Ross might have a look to see where they overlap.

- ## Action Items
  - MAPSIT, send standards links and present to MAPSIT. The goal in the fall is to get feedback from MAPSIT (and/or LEAG).
  - LEAG - put in an abstract for us and request a talk. The meeting is in October. [LINK](https://www.hou.usra.edu/meetings/leag2024/). Abstracts are due August 14.
  - Ross - will compare some VIPER product(s) to the LunarSDI standards.


## Next Agenda:
- 

## Next Meeting
August 8 @ 2PM MST.

{{< comments >}}
