---
date: '2023-01-01'
title: 'Lunar SDI 2024-1-11 Working Meeting'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

### Meeting information
Meetings are public and interested parties are encouraged to attend. Meetings occur on the second Thursday of every month at the time indicated below.

| Time | Time Zone |
|------|-----------|
| 4PM  | EST |
| 3PM  | CST |
| 2PM  | MST |
| 1PM  | PST | 

### How to join?

##### Video Conference Link
[Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NjM0MzI5NGUtZDI1ZS00YWVjLWI1MTctYjUzZTU4OTVlNWIz%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%22%7d)

##### Phone
Number: 1-833-436-1163
Meeting Code: 864 509 369#

## Attendees
- Brent Archinal
- Greg York
- Marc Hunter
- Laz Kestay
- Mark McClernan
- Todd Joslin
- Todd VanZant
- Trevor Garner
- Julie Stopar
- Ross Beyer


## Agenda
- Standards discussion and adoption:
  - (Done) Update docs - require projjson and/or wkt string on all data products
  - (Done) Add tutorial / links for how to go from proj short string to proper WKT string
  - (Done) Update the docs to say ocentric or ographic, use a sphere
  - Stanards
    - Radius v. height for topography. Isn't someone just going to subtract height from the file if it is shipped in radius?
    - Right now we have datasets that use both methods.
  - Default to assuming radius. With no other information, you have have a defined vertical datum.
  - The option to not define the datum and have it not be datum should not be allowable.
  - Why not just force the definition of the vertical datum?
    - Lots of tooling frication.
  - We have lots of options and need to account for them. There seems to be an ideal solution and there are reasons why something else might make sense. It might make sense to document some of that. This improves context and provides rationale for the choices.
  - Further -180 to 180 discussion. Add more language.
  - Add text describing the process to go 0-360 to -180 to 180
  
- NGA geoid - as it informs ocentric vs. ographic discussion
- Laz - spectral data, bringing them in (partially?)
- Other

- ## Action Items
  - 


## Next Agenda:
- 
  
## Next Meeting
February 9 @ 2PM MST.

{{< comments >}}
