---
date: '2023-01-01'
title: 'Lunar SDI 2024-5-09 Working Meeting'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

### Meeting information
Meetings are public and interested parties are encouraged to attend. Meetings occur on the second Thursday of every month at the time indicated below.

| Time | Time Zone |
|------|-----------|
| 4PM  | EST |
| 3PM  | CST |
| 2PM  | MST |
| 1PM  | PST | 

### How to join?

##### Video Conference Link
[Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NjM0MzI5NGUtZDI1ZS00YWVjLWI1MTctYjUzZTU4OTVlNWIz%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%22%7d)

##### Phone
Number: 1-833-436-1163
Meeting Code: 864 509 369#

## Attendees
- Brent Archinal
- Jay Laura
- Marc Hunter
- Julie Stopar
- Laz Kestay



## Agenda
- Updates on action items
  - Lunar geoid came in. Jay might make a geoid and release as ARD.
  - Fundamental difference is ~400m. What is the change in gravity? Someone can do that stuff if they want.
  - Have more products.
- Data providers/data producers discussion. Roles and responsibilities. Staging for outreach - the goal is to have 2+ data products being promoted by the Lunar SDI this FY (as that is very concrete).
  - Goal: Release 2 producers that are not produced by the USGS and provide under the LSDI standards.
    - How?
      - What products are important to release - a list.
      - Can we use the foundational data product inventory as a starting point?
      - Can not ask someone to reprocess an existing data set. Don't see a problem asking a producer to rework if the time ask is small, reasonable, and agreeable.
      - What already meets the standards?
  - See action items / homework.
  - Present this work - what are these compliant data sets. 
- LSSW, key takeaways/presentation 
- PA/ME discussions
  - NASA is doing stuff and will have a position at some point.
  - After that, other agencies will deconflict as needed.
  - We just wait.
  - NASA will discuss this process at the LSSW we think.
- NGA geoid - as it informs ocentric vs. ographic discussion (if needed)

- ## Action Items
  - Jay: Share a spreadsheet with everyone with products from FDP
  - All: Pick one product and compare to the LSDI standards. What is good? What needs an update?


## Next Agenda:
- 

## Next Meeting
June 13 @ 2PM MST.

{{< comments >}}
