---
date: '2024-07-11'
title: '2024-08-08 Working Meeting'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

### Meeting information
Meetings are public and interested parties are encouraged to attend. Meetings occur on the second Thursday of every month at the time indicated below.

| Time | Time Zone |
|------|-----------|
| 4PM  | EDT |
| 3PM  | CDT |
| 1PM  | MDT |
| 2PM  | MST |
| 2PM  | PDT | 

### How to join?

##### Video Conference Link
[Teams Link](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_NjM0MzI5NGUtZDI1ZS00YWVjLWI1MTctYjUzZTU4OTVlNWIz%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%22%7d)

##### Phone
Number: 1-833-436-1163
Meeting Code: 864 509 369#

## Attendees
- Brent Archinal
- Ross Beyer
- Wayne Prosser
- Jay Laura


## Agenda
- LEAG Abstract:
  - Concerned about the word certified.
    -  Reworked.
- Checklist Updates:
  - Question: We require that the ephemeris information be encoded in the data. That is a terrific requirement. I also do not know that tools are setup to propagate that information.
    - We need to update the standard to say that the ephemeris system must be defined in the metadata or data (this is not tracked in the data right now).
  - Question: PA/ME - is this an either/or for us with a please document or is this a hard ME until something changes more broadly?
    - Please document.
    - All of the data needs to be either PA to be interoperable OR all the data needs to be ME to be interoperable.
    - We don't take a position, but (rationale) here.
    - Update: metadata, include a must-have PA/ME information somewhere.
  - Is this really a spectrum or is there a set of minimally compliant things?
    - Should we frame it that way?
    - Must be X and should be Y?
    - Since a human is in the loop, this might not be an issue in the short term.
    - Given the 4 listed items, are they prioritized?
    - Take item #1 - are the data usable in tools that users are using? Perhaps a better take is to have the data producer identify at least one tool that the data are usable in.
      - As written this avoids listing formats
    - Update question 1: Are the data compliant with the LSDI standards? LINK. If not, what format specifications are the data complaint with and what tools will they function with?
  - PDS
    - change "orthogonal (at best)" to "different" or "distinct" (a more positive word)
    - Why aren't PDS data compliant>
      - RAW/archived vs. projected and ready-to-use ARD.
      - Check the heading size.
    - Perhaps an example is worthwhile in here.
      - The PDS data are quite heterogeneous making an example challenging.
    - Maybe provide a Venn diagram page with a comparison of archiving and making ARD.
- Upload location/form:
  - Shown. 
- VIPER
  - Initial interest window from NASA has completed. NASA is standing up an RFI for interested parties.
  - Not sure what is going to happen in the future.

## Action Items
  - 

## Next Agenda:
- 

## Next Meeting
September 12 @ 2PM MST.

{{< comments >}}
