---
date: '2022-09-29'
title: '2022-09-29 Working Meeting'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

## Attendees
- Jay Laura
- Trent Hare
- Robin Fergason
- Mike Bland
- Ross Beyer
- Cynthia Phillips

## Agenda
- Review website
- Discuss additional Data

## Notes
- Update standards to state that NAIF SPICE is the standard by which the body, sensor, and spacecraft position and orientation are encoded.
- Discussion to ensure it is clear that this is a cross institutional effort. USGS is just hosting the web presence.
  - Logos on the homepage. Participants. Say this it not just a USGS thing.
  - The NASA meatball will work. 
  - The SETI logo will work.
  - USIRA Logo? Check with Paul.
  - USGS logo. For completeness if we are doing a logo cloud.
  - Endorsed by MAPSIT text on the landing page for Europa SDI to ensure it is clear that MAPSIT is in support of our efforts.
  - Planetary SDIs are a community, cross institutional endeavour.  Text like this to ensure that we also verbally indicate that this is cross organizational.

- Update the about.
  - Plain language; what are we doing and why?
  - Image for the landing page. SWRI, Europa Juno image. Use for the landing page.
	- Cynthia has one posted on twitter. Use that.
  
Looking at the standards page(s)
- What is the OGC GeoPackage format?
	- This is the new open format. Arc will open. ArcGIS might need some love to export. QGIS will open and create. GDAL/OGR like this format.

Discussion about the upcoming geologic map.
- We might need to release a smart raster as a fallback.

Website Fix!
- Fix ESDI to Europa SDI.

Website improvements
- Data linking - Add Mike's data.
- Data gaps:
	- Make data available.
		- NIMS, DTMs, 
	- Gather geologic maps
	- Update the page, link back to Get Involved
- What about older linea data, like Ron Greeley's map?
	- Reach out to Dave Williams at ASU to see if we can release.

## Action Items
- Jay: Update Europa SDI website as per the meeting notes
- Trent: Pending release of geologic map, process to an OGC GeoPackage
- Trent: Pending release of the geologic map, generate a smart COG to rasterize.
- All: Consider how the current Europa SDI compliant data might be used. Consider creating some documentation / tutorials to help with evangalizing the content.
- Paul: Data to Jay for inclusion and release.
- Trent: Reach out to Dave Williams to see about releasing the linea map.