---
date: '2022-11-17'
title: '2024-1-25 Working Meeting (DRAFT)'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

## Meeting Link
When 8PM GMT, 12PM PST, 1PM MST
[https://jpl.webex.com/jpl/j.php?MTID=m3c96c22ed8e335e55dbd40c9084e3763](https://jpl.webex.com/jpl/j.php?MTID=m3c96c22ed8e335e55dbd40c9084e3763)

## Attendees
- Cynthia
- Ross
- Mike
- Jay
- Paul
- Trent

## Agenda
- Clipper Meeting
  - Clipper / EIS is starting to think about products that are going to be created.
  - How are they going to be rectified to one another?
  - EIS as a team has a handle on what they are doing. They are aware that some inter-team discussion (in the future) is needed to ensure interoperability.
  - Instruments are getting to a good place and so attention can be put onto other things.
  - Question about the SIS/labels and the formats that are going to be delivered.
    - Yes, these exist.
    - Once we have a public SIS, we can/should do a cross comparison.
    - Nominally, we think these will all be in PDS standard formats, so would need some work to become ARD that meets the ESDI standards.
    - Discussion on phases of the mission and how that might impact the evolution of the reference frame.
    - Expecting a SIS in the first PDS delivery, which is 3-6 months after launch. Perhaps by the end of this calendar year.
  - RADAR team / altimeter for topography.
-  Horizontal datum, looking at Paul's controlled data and Mike's data
  - Mike screen shared and shows off the updated mosaic.
  - Shows misalignment between the global mosaic and Mike's work.
  - Original thought that this was because of the addition of JunoCAM data and/or the change in ellipsoid.
  - This is not surprising that differences exist between the control.
  - Within a pixel or two movement is expected. The hope was that the most recent iteration would remove most of that, except that cause by JunoCAM data.
  - Offsets are on the order of 4-5 km (at their worst).
  - Current question is 'why is this occurring?'.
  - Discussion of the control, process:
    - USGS sent control network.
  - Plan is to get Mike and Paul together.
    - Assessment of what the displacement is (Paul will do that).
    - Were the right SPICE kernels used.
    - Correct ellipsoid.
    - et cetera.
  - More discussion on the data provenance - GTiff / Cub / Proj checks.
- STAC streaming into ArcPro (Trent shared pics).

## Notes

## Action Items
- Paul / Mike get together to discuss offsets in the reference.
- Trent JMars

## Next Meeting
2.22.24