---
date: '2022-10-20'
title: '2022-11-17 Working Meeting (DRAFT)'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

## Meeting Link
[https://jpl.webex.com/jpl/j.php?MTID=m3c96c22ed8e335e55dbd40c9084e3763](https://jpl.webex.com/jpl/j.php?MTID=m3c96c22ed8e335e55dbd40c9084e3763)
## Attendees
- Jay Laura
- Mike Bland
- Ross Beyer
- Paul Schenk
- Trent Hare
- 

## Agenda
- Status update from Paul re: Juno data
- Mike reach out to Bo to see if he is interested in having us publish the vector data
- Jay vector data acceptance status
- Use case / examples / tutorials updates
- Open Floor
- 
## Notes:
- Trent
  - PDE Ecosystem. Trent discussed how SDIs are creating ARD (that's a loaded term). Trying to make a connection from the PDS to catalogs. The PDS API is publicly available so that we can link back as well.  Important to show that we aren't trying to hide PDS data. Point at what you should, not what one could use. 
-  Paul / Juno
   -  Meeting in a bit. 
   -  Has the calibrated data and have integrated them into his own network. This works very well. The gap between E25 and E4 is good. The gap on the other side is not bridged. Not sure if there are meaningful positional adjustments yet. Illumination disparities means this is all by hand. 
   -  Paul has been able to figure out why his network won't mesh with the USGS network. Has a method to make this happen. This will be a Juno+ network plus the USGS network that Mike sent. Paul doing work fixing data, image times, etc.
   -  Paul decided to redo the stereo so that everything is in the same system. Longitudes will all be in alignment. Stereo is completed! Working on the photoclinometry. Hoping that is all done by the end of the calendar.
      -  Is the Juno data improving the stereo?
         -  No, not from Galileo. It does mean that the alignment will be good between products.
   -  Paul has done 3/4 of the mosaics. The low resolution one is not done yet. These will go to Mike next for review. This is a refresh of the work done in 2000 (so 20+ years of experience are making improvements in the quality of the data.)
   -  Paul screen share. 
      -  Good alignment, work in progress, very cool. Data are 1kmpp.
      -  Description of Juno sensor and how the sensor is doing collection. Reasons why Juno data are able to be used to create mosaics. \
      -  Good look at RGB versions as well.
      -  Will start the 200m global mosaic once this is done.
      -  Takeaway - data are working well, pipeline is working well, alignment is looking good. 
   - Going to discuss with geology working group at PSG. It will be an open forum discussion. Will talk about usage, alignment, products, etc.
-  In 2019 USGS controlled a lot of the Enceladus / Cassini imagery below a threshold. Then there were updates to the Cassini kernels that broke the USGS solution. The ephemerides for Europa just updated. Don't know if this has been released yet. Could something happen with the release (impending release) of the updated Europa ephemerides? 
   -  Cassini updated the SPKs (and PCK?) which is what broke the control.
   -  For Europa, is this just an update to the PCK? 
   -  Will this impact the Voyager / Galileo kernels?
   -  Who is this from? The Clipper navigation team.
   -  If the ENceladus data had been released as ARD, they would be in the right spot and this would be a done problem. As is, this needs to be handled on a per-image basis for Enceladus. Kernel management is a huge pain.
   -  Paul will need to get involved and understand if and how this will impact what we are doing? How do we get Paul involved? Reach out to Ryan Park or Greg or Steinbruger (sp?). Paul will reach out today.
- Vector data:
  - Mike will email Bo.
  - Working on it. Should be good soon.
- Use cases / examples / tutorials
  - Cynthia's intern is ready. She could try a task and trying to find data.
  - A graphical interface 
- Luanr SDI thank you for governance docs
  - Can we seed back?
  - Yes we will make sure that information goes back and forth.
- OPAG
  - Did not mention that we are ready and open for data.
  - April we announce that we are open for data.
- Promotion
  - When do we start to promote more widely?
  - Can we accept a change to things like the geodetic reference? Yes, we have to. How do we announce this?
  - Model that might make sense - pick a point. That is the current standard. If / when that changes, documentation is #1. We can then advocate to update.
  - Not sure if the use of the USGS/Schenk data is a good proxy for the horizontal reference yet.
    - Paul projected before JunoCam. Everything aligned well except in the N where a 3km shift exists. Not sure yet if there is any positional shift yet. Don't expect changes to be severe (a few km at most estimated based on current best knowledge).
  - Once the work that Paul has done, the combined product is the horizontal data (clipper / JUICE) will likely supercede. Or someone else with an improvement.
- Data updates
  - Discussion is essentially documentation vs 'fixing'.
- Clipper PSG as a target time to promote and do a roll out. LPSC abstract in place. 
  - This is the time to present and roll out - agreement.
- Next meeting is AGU.
  - Via email discuss if timing will work.
## Action Items
- Prep for LPSC / PSG rollout. Initial list of tasks.
- Jay: Draft LPSC abstract.
- 

