---
date: '2022-11-17'
title: 'Europa SDI 2022-12-15 Working Meeting (DRAFT)'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

## Meeting Link
When 8PM GMT, 12PM PST, 1PM MST
[https://jpl.webex.com/jpl/j.php?MTID=m3c96c22ed8e335e55dbd40c9084e3763](https://jpl.webex.com/jpl/j.php?MTID=m3c96c22ed8e335e55dbd40c9084e3763)

## Attendees
- Mike Bland
- Robin Fergason
- Cynthia Phillips
- Jay Laura
- Paul Schenk

## Agenda
- LPSC Abstract submitted.
  - Very happy to hear from IAU re: longitudes. We can get them on the schedule. 
  - Need to socialize why the decision that was made was made.
- Voyager data
  - Mike sent data to the person who was asking for these data got a pre-release product.
  - Still on the todo list.
  - Just finishing off the metadata for the Europa DTMs. Voyager after that.
  - Discussion of tutorials to support the Europa data releases.
  - For tutorials need to decide what we want and have someone assigned to do it.
  - DTM and image align. Would be a GIS style tutorial. How to throw them together, make some profiles.
- Quick discussion of SPD-41a and copyrights.
  - We'll keep our license selections to support the need for attribution for data providers.
- Horizontal datum / Juno:
  - Abstract in for LPSC (Juno part); committed to do the work. Cartography and topography discussed with good results.
- No discussion at the upcoming Europa Clipper PSG meeting. 
  - No spot in the agenda. It is quite full and more working interactions.
  - Instead, we should present this at a monthly science team meeting.
  - Let's present Monday, March 6th at noon PST.
    - How close are we to having a horizontal datum? We will adopt the datum.
    - Vector data - we have standards for vecvtor data. USGS is willing to host these under the Europa SDI.
    - We are ready for your data.
    - We are ready to help you host and advertise your data in a compliant way.
  - Working to coordinate with JUICE. Who? Mike might have some contacts. Cynthia too. 
    - Project science might be a good initial PoC.
-  Data can be uploaded with an abstract.
   -  Recommendations about what those data can and can not be. This would be for meeting organizers.
-  


## Notes

## Action Items
- Jay: How to find Europa data (spatial / temporal) and how to download it.
- Jay: Get in touch with someone at JUICE.
- Jay: Draft some sort of intake for new data or services that we can integrate.
- Robin: Sharing agreement. We have a science base agreement. We can use that verbatim?

{{< comments >}}