---
date: '2023-05-24'
title: 'Europa SDI: Datum Subgroup'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

## Meeting Link
When 8PM GMT, 12PM PST, 1PM MST
[MS Teams Meeting](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_MmUyOTQ3NGEtMjdlZi00OWY0LWJjNWMtNWM3NzhhYWRhYzcz%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%22%7d)

## Attendees
- Trent
- Mike
- Paul
- Jay

## Agenda
- Mike:
  - The final USGS network allowed Cilix to adjust.
  - Has a Juno image and has points that he is happy with. He just needs to run the bundle.
  - Is good with how to do a multi-instrument bundle in ISIS.
  - Some of the reconstructed SPICE for Voyager is really terrible. So the data need to be updated a bit (deltack; resected) to get the observations onto the body.
  - Is it necessary to remove the SPICE from the data? Don't think so. Watch for the covariance matrices as they are effectively weights.
- Paul:
  - Would like the bundle to support off-body pixels - automatic resection?
  - Working on inter-image registration more. Finding more low-quality control points in the network. That is a concern for the shape model, but not necessarily for the image mosaics.
  -  Question: What is the broader timeline for the creation of a final network?
    - Europa is a priority. September / early October to having a network (Voyager, Galileo I/II (high and low resolution), and Juno). 
  - Question: Is the intention to run the test or not run the tests as previously discussed?
    - Yes, but after the intern is done.
  - Question: Is the proposed work going to address the offsets that were measured?
    - Yes, this will tell us how relevant the differences are.
    - No, the low-res to high-res is not necessarily the issue. The low-res to low-res should, intuitively match better.
  - Paul can run the adjustment this summer.


## Notes

## Action Items
- 

## Next Meeting
June 20 @12PM PST

{{< comments >}}