---
date: '2023-05-24'
title: 'Europa SDI 2023-05-25 Working Meeting'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

## Meeting Link
When 8PM GMT, 12PM PST, 1PM MST
[https://jpl.webex.com/jpl/j.php?MTID=m3c96c22ed8e335e55dbd40c9084e3763](https://jpl.webex.com/jpl/j.php?MTID=m3c96c22ed8e335e55dbd40c9084e3763)

## Attendees
- Mike
- Cynthia
- Paul

## Agenda
-  Updates on data:
   -  Vector data submissions?
      -  Met with Beau. He is interested in hosting it.
      -  Wants or wishes that he could write a pub on this.
         -  Is that a holdup? Not something we can impact.
      -  What are his data?
      -  Talked about converting his data into the same horizontal datum. Some are in line/sample.
         -  If we have a list of line/samples, we could get the update lat/lons.
         -  The data are not simple. If in lat/lon we would need to update. 
         -  Out in any form would be useful.
         -  Sarah Stewart is organizing the crater community to have better data sharing. We should reach out to her so that we are not stepping on toes.
            -  Need to reach out to see what's up.
         -  Also has Ganymede and Callisto.
         -  Left off - Beau will send Mike a sample.
   -  Raster data submissions?
      -  Paul has the data upload information. Will work on it next week (or later) for evaluation.
      -  Paul will send the data.
      -  Once done - final global 3 color mosaic will be created.
      -  High resolution mosaics in color have been done.
      -  Will include kernels (bc/spk) so that we can also release updated individual images.
      -  These are geometrically and radiometrically corrected Juno Cam images.
      -  Once Mike approves we are done.
-  Rest of the year:
   -  Outreach to JUICE (Jay; still todo.)
   -  Outreach to other data providers
      -  Write a PDART to release NIMS as ARD?
         -  Mike Malaska (sp?) - started poking at the NIMS. It isn't super far off, but it isn't perfect. Maybe release imperfect to help demonstrate community need?
      -  Paul's data to release when completed.
      -  Mike's DTMs (waiting on me to release I think.)
   -  Build engagement materials (punt into July)
  

## Notes

## Action Items
- Review the strategy and roadmap documents
- What do we want to achieve next year?
- Mike will ping Beau and Mike Malaska.


## Next Meeting
June 22 @12PM PST

{{< comments >}}