---
date: '2025-07-08'
title: 'Europa SDI 2024-08-22 Working Meeting'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

## Meeting Link
When 8PM GMT, 12PM PST, 1PM MST
[MS Teams Meeting](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/meetup-join/19%3ameeting_MmUyOTQ3NGEtMjdlZi00OWY0LWJjNWMtNWM3NzhhYWRhYzcz%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%220693b5ba-4b18-4d7b-9341-f32f400a5494%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%22c27c6e98-e45a-45ff-aea5-7f10d6fe67c1%22%7d)

## Attendees
- Mike Bland
- Ross Beyer
- Paul Schenk
- Cynthia Phillips
- Trent Hare
- Marc Hunter

## Agenda
- Future of the WG activities, plan for engagement

## Notes
- The USGS will no longer support PSDI activities in FY26 (staffing/funding issue)
  - 3 of 4 original USGS staff members on the Europa SDI are no longer (formally) with USGS Astrogeology
  - Robin – now at NASA
  - Jay – uncertain status was moving to branch chief at Advanced Research Computing
  - Trent – now emeritus
- What should the future of the ESDI be?
  - Community volunteer organization?
    - LPI previously could work on something like this but has been now directed to work on sampling.
    - PSI?
    - How are these maintained in the terrestrial community?
      - Much longer history in their fields and are more coherent
      - Planetary doesn’t have to follow this
        - Could do the data “work” (generating products) via PDARTs or other funding streams
          - Look at who has funding already
        - Do the organization on a volunteer basis – maybe just meet twice a year.
          - Staff organized and aligned. Identify opportunities
          - Bring in other folks into a meeting every 6 months.
          - Someone still needs to lead/push this beyond the scope of the 1 hour meeting.
          - Send announcements out broadly
        - Can we align it with MAPSIT, OPAG, topical meetings.
        - Posters at AGU, etc??
  - Stand down?
    - See if there’s support for this in FY27?
    - How does this fit into Planetary Data Ecosystem?
      - Chat with Robin F.
  - Could be morphed into a PDART?
    - Need well-defined tasks
    - Paul currently funded via PDART to do Europa global mosaic and shape model
  - Involvement of Clipper mission?
    - Not for this effort?
    - Plan for developing spatial data analysis tool (proprietary)
      - Ideally ESDI standards should feed into this.
  - Set an open SDI meeting for 1 month before OPAG meeting, then can report at OPAG
    - Last OPAG was early June. Next OPAG is likely December
    - Target October or November for ~1 hr open ESDI meeting
      - First meeting we set the agenda
      - Introduce the concept, talk about open topics, plan for future meeting
      - Friday the 24th or Mon Oct. 27th
      - Need to send out announcements (e.g., PEN).

Open Topics
- Horizontal datum
  - Make recommendation to community?
    - Is there value in this? Clipper will improve datum definition by an order of magnitude (or more)
  - Potential research to understand variability
    - Does it come down to accuracy of the solution (i.e., variability is within the limits of the accuracy)
  - PDART for this portion
    - Puts this effort into a better known funding stream
- Voyager data - status update
  - Working on an ARD release
  - Qualitative metadata approved but have not heard a recent update
- NIMS status update
  - ??
- Vector data (e.g., craters)
  - Geologic map
  - Have not received other vector data
  - Previous had spoken to Beau B.
- Adding additional members
  - See above about ESDI future
- Outreach to Clipper team post launch?
- Other activities?
## Action Items

## Next Meeting
October 24 @12PM MST

{{< comments >}}
