---
date: '2022-11-17'
title: '2024-3-28 Working Meeting (DRAFT)'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

## Meeting Link
When 8PM GMT, 12PM PST, 1PM MST
[https://jpl.webex.com/jpl/j.php?MTID=m3c96c22ed8e335e55dbd40c9084e3763](https://jpl.webex.com/jpl/j.php?MTID=m3c96c22ed8e335e55dbd40c9084e3763)

## Attendees
- Cynthia
- Mike
- Jay
- Paul

## Agenda
- Horizontal Datum
  - Recap from a smaller meeting last week.
  - Outstanding question: Is the addition of the Juno data causing the USGS network to shift?
    - Mike is working on adding one observation to the USGS network.
    - Able to process the JunoCam observation to mapprojected form.
    - Spun wheels for a bit how to get map projected to un-projected. How is Paul using these data?
      - JunoCam2ISIS breaks the observations into framelets. Results in ~40 images.
    - Ran a cnet add to get this added to the USGS network, points have been added. Time out at that point.
    - Next steps are clear, so just need some more time.
  - Question: Just 1 image?
    - Yes, not a replication test, just a test to see what adding one, blue filter, observation does.
    - Adding just one to try and reduce the number of variables that can be contributing to the observed shifts.
    - This is solid due diligence.
  - Question: What is the difference between the Gallileo and JunoCam observation resolution?
    - Off the cuff, km per pixel in Gallileo, JunoCam ~1km per pixel to ~3km per pixel.
    - Signal to noise is a lot better in the JunoCam observations. 
    - Lots of high sun angles, which is good for feature observation.
    - Needs to have higher density of control point to the edge of the observation. Need good span to either side of the disc so due to observation geometry.
  - Both products are using the exact same kernels - no need to test further.
  - For map projection, the radii need to be carefully specified. 
    - Only need to re-run map projection.
  - Paul is verifying his network via manual inspection.
    - This is a work in progress, nothing obviously wrong.
    - It is hard to match the high sun observations to low sun observations with confidence.
      - Mike affirms.
    - Consider: Go ahead and keep the USGS map and publish the JunoCam map with that being labelled as a preliminary product.
      - Nice to have the product out in the world.
      - Makes sense to label as preliminary.
      - Yes on helping get docs for a data release. Yes on releasing these as ARD.
  - Question: Is the JunoCam lense and lense distoration the reason that dense control to the observation edges is needed?
    - Yes.
  - It would be valuable to have a displacement map.
    - Mike can generate a dispalcement map.
  - Discssion on preliminary data releases, general idea what EIS is planning.
- Geologic map is released.
  - Trent working to get symbology so that Jay can release as ARD via our vector API.

## Notes

## Action Items
- Jay: Send draft docs to the group to start drafting.
- Mike/Paul: Continue working the offset issue.
- Mike: Create a displacement map between Paul's mosaic and the USGS products.
- Jay: Get draft data generated as ARD and send to the group for review.


## Next Meeting
4.25.24