---
date: '2023-05-24'
title: 'Europa SDI 2023-08-24 Working Meeting'
---

{{<  meeting-notes >}}

## Meeting Link
When 8PM GMT, 12PM PST, 1PM MST
[https://jpl.webex.com/jpl/j.php?MTID=m3c96c22ed8e335e55dbd40c9084e3763](https://jpl.webex.com/jpl/j.php?MTID=m3c96c22ed8e335e55dbd40c9084e3763)

## Attendees
- Cynthia
- Mike
- Trent
- Paul
- Ross
- Jay

## Agenda
-  Updates on data:
   -  Vector data submissions?
      - Europa Geologic map, still not out. What's going on?
   -  Raster data submissions?
      - Raw image Voyager data. Whose court is that in? Jay and Mike will figure that out.
      - Versions with and without reseaus would be preferable. One where reseaus are nulled and not there, one where they are beautified.
- Paul's data:
   - Thanks for delivering Paul! 
   - What are these data? Paul:
     - Data provided are map projected mosaics of the key observations in the control network. These key observations are part of the global mosaic.
     - The data include observations from 5-7 km/pixel.
     - These were sent to ensure that the control network was not distorted to the existing USGS mosaics.
     - Not sure that these are in the same map projection as the data that USGS is comparing to.
   - Mike:
     - Started to do a comparison. No map2map yet.
     - Has been comparing these to the USGS products that were released.
     - What does it mean to have a horizontal datum? What do we do when there are offsets? Does that tell us anything about the accuracy of the mosaics?
     - Mike show's the observation mosaics that the USGS made.
     - Comparison of the data:
       - Difference rasters do not work.
       - Paul's data have been photometrically corrected.
       - Good alignment at the low resolution stuff. Cilix looks good between these.
       - Shifting areas to E15, their are offsets between E15 USGS and E15 from Paul. There is a ~950 m offset. Similar to E11.
       - Other areas (E3) are super locked in. 
     - Each data set (USGS and Paul's) are internally self consistent.
     - Question: Will the USGS high resolution stuff align with a Schenk mosaic? 
       - It looks like it is generally at the pixel level. Maybe 2 pixels.
       - Is this the expected accuracy? 
         - USGS states that internally, the accuracies are to 0.5 pixels. Are the USGS absolute uncertainties actually higher? By a factor of 2? Or is something else systematic going on?
   - Overall, looking really good. This is really hard.
   - Paul thoughts:
      - These data used the USGS points plus his own points that include JunoCam and New Horizons.
      - USGS:Paul, 5:1 ratio of points.
      - Paul's points were all hand picked. He found errors in the USGS points.
      - The number of points that Paul removed was trivial. He does not think that that really changed anything. He assumed that this was a weight of numbers approach that swamped the bad points.
      - The JunoCam area is important to see what the effects might be.
      - It might twist the control on the antipodal side.
   - One option: when selecting a horizontal datum would be to re-create the USGS products using Paul's updated network.
   - Paul can send the high resolution mosaics.
   - Once this datum (Paul's mosaic as the proxy for the horizontal datum) is okayed, USGS products and DTMs would be recreated.
   - Nominally, this is the path to take after more analysis.
   - Where does it make sense to focus comparisons?
     - In the JunoCam areas.
   - ToDo: Is the 1km offset significant?
   - E4 and Cilix mosaics are uploading now. Others will take a while to upload.
- Mike Malaska and Ashley Davies are about to release the NIMs data.
  - How does 360 band get served?
  - It's not a ton of data.
  - Data are hand controlled to what?
    - The old USGS base map (2000).
    - This is so low resolution, does it matter?
  - Mike talked to Mike and offered support (at LPSC).
  - This is a small archive, so it gets an internal PDS review. ANyone interested in doing a science review?
- Beau vector data?
  - Not sure yet. No time pressure.
-  Rest of the year:
   -  Outreach to JUICE (Jay; still todo.)
   -  Build engagement materials (punt into September)


## Notes

## Action Items
- Review the strategy and roadmap documents
- What do we want to achieve next year?


## Next Meeting
September 28th @12PM PST

{{< comments >}}